---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/classical-education/","tags":["Catherine-Original"],"created":"2025-06-22T18:20:26.022-04:00","updated":"2025-06-23T08:44:10.547-04:00"}
---

The Classical Education (CE) movement is broadly the attempt to revive the traditional curriculum of Western European education through emphasis on the [[Seven Liberal Arts\|Seven Liberal Arts]] as historically understood.

In my own approach to Liberal Education, I avoid the terminology of “classical education” because I believe that the classical education movement, at least in the United States, is deeply enmeshed with a reactionary political project that is contrary to the spirit of free inquiry the Liberal Arts are supposed to instill. Often, the CE movement is deeply reactionary in its interpretation of social norms, oligarchic in its political-economic views, and fundamentalist in its religion. Because the Seven Liberal Arts receive their form in the history of Western European thought, the CE movement sometimes sees a “return” to them as a means of protecting “the West” from a legion of social ills. All these enemies—whether they are immigrants, other religions, transgender people, or public school systems—are degeneracy from which children must be protected through the pure, hallowed Classical Curriculum. The situation is so unfortunate that many of the resources one might encounter to learn more about the Liberal Arts are very openly reactionary in their presentations and in their stated motivations.

I, Catherine, am fundamentally opposed to these reactionary and elitist tendencies one might find in the CE movement. My own interest in the Seven Liberal Arts, and even in the [[Liberal Arts Teachers\|Liberal Arts Teachers]] (some of whom were important for the foundation of the CE movement), is centered around the free development of the individual and the life of the mind, which includes a deeply critical attitude to norms imposed from the outside. While I acknowledge that the Seven Liberal Arts are rooted in the history of Western Europe, I enjoin any others interested in the Arts to understand that they attempt to reach beyond these origins, and even have roots in other cultures and ideas. They are not the *only* way to be educated. However, a deep connection to the past is necessary for a deep engagement with the present.